VERB + INFINITIVE

agree
  I agree to participate in the community service program next week.

ask
  She asked to leave early from work today.

offer
  He offered to help me with my homework.

promise
  She promised to return the book tomorrow.

refuse
  He refused to accept the job offer because the salary was too low.

want
  I want to travel around the world.


VERB + OBJECT + INFINITIVE

Ask: "I asked him to close the window."
Beg: "She begged him to stay."
Encourage: "The teacher encouraged the students to study hard for the exam."
Order: "The officer ordered the soldiers to stand at attention."
Persuade: "I persuaded her to take a day off and rest."
Tell: "She told me to meet her at the park."
Want: "I want you to finish your homework before going to play."

VERB +INFINITIVE WITHOUT TO

Help: "Can you help me carry these bags?"
Let: "My parents let me stay out late on weekends."
Make: "The teacher made us clean the classroom."

notes
"Help" can be used with "to", but it is optional
  She helped me pack / She helped me to pack

The passive of "make" takes "to"
  I was made to do it

The passive of "let" is "allowed to"
  I was allowed to do it


ADJECTIVE + INFINITIVE
  Are you happy to see me?
  You'll be disappointed to hear my news.


GERUND

Admit: "He admitted cheating on the test."
Deny: "She denied being at the scene of the crime."
Regret: "I regret not taking the opportunity when I had the chance."
Suggest: "He suggested having lunch at the new restaurant."

After prepositions, prepositional verbs, and phrasal verbs
  After leaving school he joined the army.
  She apologized for arriving late.
  I've given up smoking at last.
 
Note
    The preposition to (not to as part of the infinitive) can cause problems. This is because to +-ing seems a strange combination.
        I'm looking forward to seeing you.
        I'm not used to driving on the left.
        Do you feel up to going out this evening?


VERB + THAT + CLAUSE

In some (not all) of the above examples, a that clause can be used after the main verb in place of a gerund or infinitive.
There is no change in meaning. That itself can be omitted.
    She admitted (that) she had made a mistake.
    He promised (that) he would do it.
    They suggested (that) we should have a long break.


VERBS +INFINITIVE OR GERUND WITH A CHANGE OF MEANING

https://test-english.com/grammar-points/b1-b2/gerund-or-infinitive/

SEE another topics from test-english.com